[Applause]
you know it seems that we make most of
our decisions on autopilot because of
habitual behaviors when is likely formed
in childhood habits you didn't even
decide to accept even if you didn't grow
up without money you could be sending
that message to the world like striving
for success no matter what the cost
seems admirable but is it really here's
my list number one buying expensive
gifts the feeling of poverty can haunt a
person their whole life even if they
have money now they're often ashamed of
their poor background to show that their
finances are now alright they'll shower
others in expensive gifts pricey things
they'd never buy for themselves to being
impulsive investing in unreliable
startups and schemes often comes
hand-in-hand with a poor mentality these
people subconsciously think they have
nothing to lose and they're bent on that
one great investment that'll make them
rich fast not that investing is bad
plenty of financially successful people
do it but they calculate the pros and
cons they don't do it impulsively plus
their investments don't leave them
strapped for cash that's the difference
3 keeping expired foods people with a
poor upbringing might have had a
shortage of food so as adults they can't
bring themselves to throw it away
even when it's expired this squirreling
behavior can also spill into other areas
of their lives they might keep things
others regard as trash and old broken
bicycle clothes that no longer fit or
are covered in stains and the like when
you know a life with few material
possessions it's hard for you to part
with the ones you have for spending
money fast as soon as that paycheck gets
deposited into the bank it's gone before
it could even get comfy sound familiar
poor minded people spend their money as
quickly as possible because deep down
inside they're afraid it'll disappear
they don't even realize they do it it's
instinctual instead of thinking about
how to make
is the money right or putting it into a
savings account they'll do things like
five making unnecessary purchases people
who grew up in a difficult money
situation often don't know much about
financial planning I mean you can't
decide what to do with your extra cash
when you don't have any as adults this
usually turns into making unnecessary
purchases without thinking of the
consequences they want to show society
they aren't poor anymore a good example
is taking out loans to buy all the
latest gadgets and accessories you
essentially don't need truly successful
people rarely waste money on expensive
items when they do spend big it's a must
like for investments six feeling guilty
about freebies people who grew up in
low-income families feel shame or
offended when someone offers them
something for free they can regard this
as a recognition of their poverty from
other people here have a free lunch at
the company's expense because you're
poor it's obviously not the intention
but they might take it that way because
of their personal complexes poor minded
people would rather pay for something
because they want to show the world that
they can afford it seeing a pattern here
7 avoiding auto payments people who grew
up without money can't imagine having
their funds taken away from them without
their knowing it that's not to say they
don't make their payments they just
rather physically press the pay button
themselves they want to be in control of
who takes their money and when that and
they could be afraid that they might
need this money for something else like
an emergency that's also why they tend
to make payments at the last minute 8
settling for jobs they don't like a
person who grew up in poverty will work
any job as long as it pays they'll even
master a profession they're not
passionate about a lot of it comes down
to parents that desperately want their
kid to become rich so they choose
promising professions for them in
advance even if the child doesn't like
it but how can you achieve success in a
field you can't stand
could have to do with number nine the
endless pursuit of money success doesn't
necessarily mean rich though it's nice
when the two go hand in hand for one
person success is all about having a
happy healthy family for another it's
turning their passion into their
profession but for the poor minded
success automatically means boatloads of
money and expensive things they want to
be rich and they'll do anything to
achieve that sad thing is it's a
struggle when that's not where your
interests lie 10 procrastinating here's
the catch-22 the pursuit to become rich
fast often leads people to
procrastination and you'll never make
money if you're sitting around doing
nothing
they might complain a lot or get tired
waiting for the day when they have
millions in the bank and when you add
the fact that they're not passionate
about their work it's hard to get
motivated each day eleven panicking over
the economy people can read the news and
be horrified by predictions of economic
recession and collapse the fear that
they're about to lose everything can
keep them glued to the TV screen sure it
does sound scary enough but if viewed
objectively their lives don't change all
that much when the economy takes a dip
12 not planning the day ahead write out
an agenda for the day and stick to it
don't make one just for the sake of
having something written down approach
this consciously you need to understand
clearly why you're doing this or that
task as soon as you realize this you'll
start seeing some order in your life and
you'll understand that time is the best
investment 13 ignoring your health
working day and night going without
sleep eating fast food on the go all for
the pursuit of your career and financial
goals they say wow what a hard worker
sure but how can you be successful if
your hard work is breaking you down
always take time for your health it's
much easier to work when you feel good
it's a habit among rich people to devote
at least 30 minutes a day to financial
fitness do this and you'll get a boost
of real productivity no cup of coffee
can compete with 14 forgetting about
self-development truly successful people
realized that they need to constantly
learn something new and there's nothing
boring or academic about it it can be
fun try to do useful things when you
come home from work take up a hobby sign
up for a workshop there are free ones no
shame in that
improve your skills reading books is a
favorite among the rich 15 getting up at
the last minute most successful people
get up an hour maybe two or even three
before they need to go to work as for
those who don't like their job they get
up at the last minute have breakfast on
the go and get mad at themselves for
being late this is a big stress for the
body and you definitely won't have time
for self development in this mode try to
take your time before work wake up
earlier do some exercises read
literature that's important to you draw
up an action plan for the day week or
even year you'll come to work fresh and
feeling on top of your game
[Music]